I'm curious wondered like the cost
of doing something like this.
Is there one of the downsides of
like keeping your state in a server?
>> So the question is, what is the cost or
the downside of keeping
your state in a server?
Let me preface that with this is something
I would be very careful about doing.
In the real world in the sense of I would
have to have a good reason to do this.
But at the same time,
that WebSockets are pretty cheap and
state itself, provided we're
not dealing with like a massive
amount of state is actually pretty
small in terms of the foot print.
Even to the point that within Redux or
NgRx you can actually,
I know with NgRx you can break
your state out into these
individual smaller subsets and
then dynamically or
lazily, lazy, load them into your store.
I typically avoid doing that.
Because state in and
of itself is so small.
The footprint is so small in
comparison to the rest of the app.
I just put it in one place.
And so I would say,
when you're looking at a single state tree
as just a JavaScript object,
it's very small.
And so I think,
the cost of it is also very small.
But, I think there has to be a good
functional reason to do this.
And I can think of a couple of them.
I think being able to do remote
assistance, remote troubleshooting,
there's good reasons for
there obviously take security seriously.
But the cost itself in terms
of the transport cost over
the network is pretty small.
And I think moving a single state tree
across the Internet is also pretty small.
So I would obviously,
you'd want to keep an eye on that.
But this is not certainly I would just do
as his default like every app that I get
now has a remote real time back end.
But it is possible to do this in
like pieces or a hybrid approach,
where this becomes very effective.
So to answer the question, I think if the
user interaction would benefit from it,
I think the cost is minimal.
I think you would just have to
have a good reason to do that.
>> So when we're talking about this
observables pattern, you were describing
how we need to like switch our thinking
from input outputs like output input, and
I'm curious just like,
I'm having trouble with that mental model.
I'm curious if you could like walk through
how you apply that mental model to this
use case right here.
>> So, the question is,
based on a comment that I made yesterday,
around we need to switch our paradigm
from input to output, to output to input.
How would I apply that to
this particular example?
So let's think about this for a second.
Let me pull up another instance of this
And I'm just going to interact with this.
For just a second,
notice that on the right hand side,
I'm not having to do anything.
It's that it is receiving
information to the application,
and it's responding to it.
And so when I talk about think of it from
output to input is that when you think
of a stream, the nature of a stream
is that it's outputting something.
And so when you shift your mind to start
to think of everything as a stream
of data.
That there's already an initial output,
really what you have to focus on is,
where do I want to put that
stream into my application.
And so in the right hand side is
that we're pushing data to it.
Is that data is being
outputted from the server and
pushed into the string.
And so when you start to think
about interactions is not,
I'm going to pull this data to me,
but rather I'm going to allow
you to push data to me,
where I'm going to respond
to the output of some event.
So you just sort of think of things in
terms of events, capturing them and
then figuring out how you want to
input them into your application, and
what shape you want it to be in.
And so in this case,
as we start to go through this,
you can see on the right hand side,
that we're interacting.
We're capturing even that output of those
events, translating into something else,
and then pushing that into
the right hand application.
But even here,
if I go like this I'm pushing data or
I'm outputting events that are being
picked up on the right hand side and
being responded to.
And so it's just everything is a stream.
There's always output.
You just need to figure out
what you want to do with it and
how it's going to affect your
application when you input it into it.
So it's very simple to say it like just
go from input to output, output to input,
and your problems will be solved.
I realized that two slides does
not a paradigm shift make,
that I'm constantly having to
refine how I think about that.
And finding new ways to apply
in this case, through space and
time is what happens if I'm
actually pushing things, or
I'm outputting events and data over
the internet through space and time.
What does that mean?
And this is where you have
this particular example.
Hopefully that was helpful?
>> Yeah, definitely.
I think I was stuck thinking when
you're looking at the manual step,
like thinking of that as a piece of input
you're sending, but definitely seems
clearer to talk about that response coming
from the server as output to the client.
>> Yep.
I was always going to dispatch
something that there is some,
but even this, when I click step I'm
actually dispatching, I'm creating output.
And so it just helps you to think of,
instead of saying, I'm pulling this to me,
that I'm pushing things into
the application to be responded to.
And so this concludes Enterprise Patterns
featuring TypeScript,
we've covered a lot of material,
and I just wanna thank you
from the bottom of my heart for
spending this time sharing and
learning these concepts with me,
and please take it, apply it.
And if you do something cool, please
reach out to me on twitter at simpleton,
I'm accept DMs and
I would love to hear what you build.
I would love to hear about your successes,
failures, frustrations, and
as well keep your eye on the repository,
as I will add in some additional resources
that will help you along your journey to
become a better all around programmer.
So thank you so much for being here.
Thank you for joining me on this journey.
I wish you all the luck in the world in
your career, in your pursuit of software.